#summary Installation of the Numpy Python Array Module.

|| [InstallPyMCT] || [BabelInstall] ||

= Numpy Installation =

== About Numpy ==
Blatently stolen from [http://numpy.scipy.org/]

NumPy

The fundamental package needed for scientific computing with Python is called NumPy.  This package contains:
  * a powerful N-dimensional array object
  * sophisticated (broadcasting) functions
  * basic linear algebra functions
  * basic Fourier transforms
  * sophisticated random number capabilities
  * tools for integrating Fortran code.
  * NumPy derives from the old Numeric code base and can be used as a replacement for Numeric.   It also adds the features introduced by Numarray and can also be used to replace Numarray.  

Numeric users should find the transition relatively easy (although not without some effort).  There is a module (numpy.oldnumeric.alter_code1) that can make most of the necessary changes to your Python code that used Numeric to work with NumPy's Numeric compatibility module. 

== Step 1:  Obtaining the Numpy source ==

You can download Numpy from the above site.  Here's a direct link to their SourceForge project [http://sourceforge.net/projects/numpy/ page]  Please download the most recent version.

Assuming you download the package to our Sandbox directory:
{{{
$ pwd
/home/steder/Sandbox
$ ls
numpy-1.0.1.tar.gz
$ tar -zxf numpy-1.0.1.tar.gz 
$ ls
numpy-1.0.1/  numpy-1.0.1.tar.gz
$ cd numpy-1.0.1
$ ls
COMPATIBILITY   MANIFEST.in  README.txt           site.cfg
DEV_README.txt  numpy/       scipy_compatibility  THANKS.txt
LICENSE.txt     PKG-INFO     setup.py*
}}}

== Step 2:  Building  and Installing Numpy ==

{{{
$ $PYTHON setup.py install
}}}

== Step 2: Building and Installing Numpy on Lonestar ==

Edit site.cfg in the numpy directory to point to BLAS and LAPACK on your system.

{{{
lslogin1% more site.cfg
[atlas]
library_dirs = /opt/apps/gotoblas/gotoblas-1.02
atlas_libs = goto
}}}

You should then be able to proceed with the build normally:
{{{
$ $PYTHON setup.py install
}}}

|| [InstallPyMCT] || [BabelInstall] ||






