#summary Stage 1 installation instructions for PyMCT
= Stage 1 =
Here we're concerned with simply setting up environment variables to make the installation of PyMCT straightfoward.  Take some time and research what these values should be for your system.  

== Setting Environment Variables ==

If you're unfamiliar with setting shell environment variables we can provide a little information on how to make these modifications yourself.  However, first we need to identify which shell you are using.

=== Which shell am I running? ===
A simple way to check which shell you're running is to simply type:
{{{
echo $SHELL
}}}
at the prompt.

The result will likely be either of these:
{{{
/bin/bash
/bin/csh
}}}

=== BASH ===
To setup environment variables on a system using BASH you will want to edit a hidden file like:
{{{
/home/user/.bash_profile
/home/user/.bashrc
}}}

In Bash setting an environment variable looks like:
{{{
VARIABLE = value
export VARIABLE
}}}

For instance
{{{
PATH=/usr/bin:/bin
export PATH
}}}

=== CSHELL ===
To setup environment variables on a system using CSHELL you will want to edit a hidden file like:
{{{
/home/user/.cshrc
}}}

In CShell setting an environment variable looks like:
{{{
setenv VARIABLE "value"
}}}

For instance:
{{{
setenv PATH "/bin:/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin"
}}}

=== Other Systems ===

There are many different shells available and it's very difficult to cover every possible system here.  We strongly recommend that you contact a system administrator for your system and take a look at the documentation for your shell.  You only really need to know how to set environment variables.  Once you have that information we can proceed.

== Variables to set ==

{{{
PYMCT_ROOT
}}}
{{{
F90_COMPILER_ROOT
MPI_COMPILER_ROOT
MPIHEADER
MPILIBS
NON_MPI_F77
NON_MPI_F90
MPI_HOME
}}}

{{{
FFLAGS
FCFLAGS
F90FLAGS
FC
F77
F90
}}}

{{{
BABEL
PATH
LD_LIBRARY_PATH
LD_LOAD_LIBRARY
INCLUDE_PATH
SIDL_DLL_PATH
SIDL_DEBUG_DLOPEN
}}}

{{{
PYTHONPATH
PY_VERSION
PY_CONFIG
PYTHON
CHASM_VERSION
CHASM_FORTRAN_VENDOR
}}}

== Example Values ==

=== Installation directory ===

PYMCT_ROOT is used to determine where all the necessary PyMCT packages and modules will be installed.  Possible directories might be "/usr/local" for a system-wide installation or a "/home/user" to install PyMCT for use by a single person.  Let's use the following to install PyMCT for a single user.
{{{
PYMCT_ROOT=$HOME/pymct/
}}}

=== Compiler Flags ===
These values are talked about in more detail on the StageZeroInstallPyMCT page.  Hopefully they are already set for you.  You may be interested in adding to them to specify a certain optimization level, but assuming they are set you can leave them alone.

If they are not set, you need to look into the documentation for your compiler, or speak with your system admin, to determine what linking conventions are in use for your Fortran compiler.  Some compilers will require you to make changes, many will simply work _out of the box_ without setting these flags.

The Absoft compiler is a notable compiler that has very different linking conventions then most other Fortran compilers.  These flags change the default behavior of Absoft Fortran to match that of a Gnu, Intel, and Portland Group compilers.
{{{
FFLAGS=-f -N15
FCFLAGS=-YEXT_NAMES=LCS -YEXT_SFX=_
F90FLAGS=-YEXT_NAMES=LCS -YEXT_SFX=_
}}}

=== Default compilers ===

These are shortcuts to the compilers we'll be using most.

{{{
FC=mpif90
F77=mpif77
F90=mpif90
}}}

=== Compilers  and Paths for MCT ===

This next group of variables are used to setup the compiler paths needed by MCT.
F90_COMPILER_ROOT can be found by running the following command:
{{{
-bash-2.05b$ mpif90 -show
f90 -YEXT_NAMES=LCS -YEXT_SFX=_ -YEXT_NAMES=LCS -YEXT_SFX=_ -I/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/include -p/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/include -L/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/lib -lmpichf90 -X -rpath -X /soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/lib -lmpichf90 -lmpich -lpthread -lpvfs -lrt
}}}

You'll notice that f90 is the compiler itself.  You might see _gfortran_, _ifcbin_, _pgf90_ or some other compiler at the start of that line and if that's the case you'll need to modify the next command to match.
{{{
-bash-2.05b$ which f90
/soft/com/packages/absoft-9.0/opt/absoft/bin/f90
}}}

Now we can set F90_COMPILER_ROOT by dropping /bin/f90 from the path:
{{{
F90_COMPILER_ROOT=/soft/com/packages/absoft-9.0/opt/absoft/
}}}

MPI_COMPILER_ROOT can be determined a little more simply:
{{{
-bash-2.05b$ which mpif90
/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/bin/mpif90
}}}

Now we can set MPI_COMPILER_ROOT by dropping the /bin/mpif90 from the path:
{{{
MPI_COMPILER_ROOT=/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/
}}}

MPIHEADER and MPILIBS are set from MPI_COMPILER_ROOT.

So, these variables in our example are set to:
{{{
F90_COMPILER_ROOT=/soft/com/packages/absoft-9.0/opt/absoft/
MPI_COMPILER_ROOT=/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/
MPIHEADER=$MPI_COMPILER_ROOT/include/mpif.h
MPILIBS=$MPI_COMPILER_ROOT/lib
MPI_HOME=$MPI_COMPILER_ROOT
}}}

=== Compiler paths for Babel ===
These variables are used to specify the Fortran compilers that should be used by Babel.  We don't need MPI libraries and includes at this point so we can use the original compilers directly.  

You can find out the names of these compilers by typing 
{{{
-bash-2.05b$ mpif77 -show
f77 -f -N15 -f -B108 -I/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/include -L/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/lib -Wl,-rpath -Wl,/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/lib -lmpich -lpthread -lpvfs -lrt
-bash-2.05b$ which f77
/soft/com/packages/absoft-9.0/opt/absoft/bin/f77
}}}

And:
{{{
-bash-2.05b$ mpif90 -show
f90 -YEXT_NAMES=LCS -YEXT_SFX=_ -YEXT_NAMES=LCS -YEXT_SFX=_ -I/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/include -p/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/include -L/soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/lib -lmpichf90 -X -rpath -X /soft/apps/packages/mpich2-sock-1.0.4p1-absoft-9.0-1-shared/lib -lmpichf90 -lmpich -lpthread -lpvfs -lrt
-bash-2.05b$ which f90
/soft/com/packages/absoft-9.0/opt/absoft/bin/f90
}}}

The output of _which_ gives you the values for these two variables.  Go ahead and set them in your environment.
{{{
NON_MPI_F77=/soft/com/packages/absoft-9.0/opt/absoft/bin/f77
NON_MPI_F90=/soft/com/packages/absoft-9.0/opt/absoft/bin/f90
}}}

=== Babel and PyMCT library settings ===
{{{
BABEL
PATH
LD_LIBRARY_PATH
LD_LOAD_LIBRARY
INCLUDE_PATH
SIDL_DLL_PATH
SIDL_DEBUG_DLOPEN
}}}

=== Python Settings ===
{{{
PYTHONPATH
PY_VERSION=2.4.1
PY_CONFIG:=--prefix=$(PYMCT_ROOT) --enable-shared --enable-unicode=ucs4 --with-threads --with-universal-newlines --with-pymalloc --with-cxx=g++
PYTHON:=$(PYMCT_ROOT)/bin/python
CHASM_VERSION:=1.3
CHASM_FORTRAN_VENDOR:=Absoft #Options: (Absoft,Alpha,Cray,GNU,IBMXL,Intel,Intel_7,Lahey,MIPSpro,NAG,SUNWspro)  
}}}